
These are working notes about the structure and formatting of Dixi
resource contents.


Formatting
==========

YAML + Kramdown
---------------
    
Contents are stored as a YAML mapping. Text fields (such as synopsis
and details) are parsed as kramdown, a backwards mostly-compatible
variant of Markdown.

Internal Links
--------------

As a special Dixi-specific extension to the kramdown syntax, items in
[[double square brackets]] are parsed as special links to other pages
in the wiki. This syntax is intended to be similar to Mediawiki's
internal links syntax. These links are evaluated and converted to
Markdown-style links before the text is handed off to kramdown for
conversion to HTML.

The link destination is evaluated according to the namespace of the
resource they are used in. For example, within the Rubygame::Screen
class page, the `[[.new]]` creates a link to the Rubygame::Screen.new
class method page, while `[[Surface]]` creates a link to the
Rubygame::Surface class (because Screen and Surface are siblings in
the Rubygame namespace).

The rules for link destinations are:

* `[[::Full::Path::To::Classmod]]` :
  Link to a specific classmod (i.e. class or module). If that classmod
  doesn't exist yet, the link is styled with the ".newpage" HTML
  class, and points to the page to create that resource.

* `[[Classmod]]` :
  Ambiguous link to a classmod. Dixi tries to guess what classmod you
  meant according to these rules (the first matching rule is used):

  1. Look for a classmod of that name in the current classmod.
  2. Look for a classmod of that name in the base (inherited)
     classmod (if any), recursively.
  3. Look for a classmod of that name in included modules (if any),
     recursively.
  4. Look for a classmod of that name in the top namespace.
  5. Look for a classmod of that name that has the same parent as
     the current classmod (e.g. Foo::Bar and Foo::Baz have the same
     parent, Foo).
  6. Do a breadth-first search for a classmod of that name anywhere
     in the current library.
  7. If none of the above rules matched, the text is rendered as
     plain text span (not a link) with a ".deadlink" HTML class.

  The same rules are applied to partial paths. E.g.
  `[[Events::KeyPressed]]` could match `Rubygame::Events::KeyPressed`,
  but would not match (toplevel) `KeyPressed` or `Rubygame::KeyPressed`.
  
* `[[Classmod.cmethod]]` :
  A link to a class method in that classmod.

* `[[Classmod#imethod]]` :
  A link to a instance method in that classmod.

* `[[.cmethod]]` :
  A link to a class method in the current classmod.

* `[[#imethod]]` :
  A link to an instance method in the current classmod.

* `[[library:linkpath]]` :
  Link to something in the current version of another library in the
  same Dixi site. Note that there is only one `:`. You may optionally
  put a one or more spaces before and/or after the `:`, for readability.
  E.g. `[[library : linkpath]]`

* `[[library/version:linkpath]]` :
  Link to something in a specific version of another library in the
  same Dixi site.

There are also special forms that affect how the link is formatted.

* `[[linkpath|custom text]]` :
  A link to "linkpath" that renders as "custom text" instead of
  "linkpath". E.g. `[[Rubygame::Surface#blit|the Surface class's #blit
  method]]` You may optionally put one or more spaces before and/or
  after the `|`, for readability. E.g. `[[linkpath | custom text]]`

* `[[linkpath]]suffix` :
  A link to "linkpath" that renders as "linkpathsuffix". Useful for
  plural forms. "suffix" can be any string of one or more letters
  (including international letters). Not valid for links with custom
  text. (You should add the suffix in the custom text in that case.)

    
Projects
========

Project information is stored in a structure like this, in the
"project.yaml" file within the project directory (e.g.
"contents/rubygame/project.yaml"):

    name: Rubygame
    current_version: 2.6.2
    synopsis:
      Cross-platform game-development library for Ruby.
    details: |
      Rubygame is a cross-platform game-development library for Ruby,
      inspired by Pygame. Rubygame strives to empower game developers
      by providing them with powerful and flexible mid-to-high level
      tools. Instead of worrying about low-level technical details,
      you can focus your energy on more interesting things (like
      making a fun game).

Normally, Dixi will assume the highest existing version is the current
version. You can override that by declaring current_version. For
example, you could declare "current_version: 1.0" while you are
working on the docs for the upcoming version 2.0, so that users won't
think that 2.0 has been released.


Classes
=======

Class information is represented in a structure like this:

    type: class
    name: Rubygame::Screen
    base: Rubygame::Surface
    includes:
      - Rubygame::NamedResource
    constants:
      - name: Rubygame::Screen::FOO
        value: "\"bar\""
        info: A fake constant I made up for demo purposes.
    attributes:
      - name: foo
        type: String
        info: A fake attribute I made up for demo purposes.
        default: "\"baz\""
        read: true    # has a read accessor?
        write: false  # has a write accessor?
    cmethods:
      - Rubygame::Screen.new
      - Rubygame::Screen.close
    imethods:
      # notice blit is a Surface method, indicating inheritance
      - Rubygame::Surface#blit
      - Rubygame::Screen#flip
    synopsis:
      Screen represents the display window for the game. It is a
      special kind of [[Surface]] that is displayed to the user.
    details: |
      Screen represents the display window for the game. It is a
      special kind of [[Surface]] that is displayed to the user.

      Screen inherits most of the Surface methods, and can be passed
      to methods which expect a Surface, including [[Surface#blit]].
      However, the Screen cannot have an alpha channel or a colorkey,
      so [[Surface#alpha=]], [[Surface#set_alpha]],
      [[Surface#colorkey=]], and [[Surface#set_colorkey]] are not
      inherited.

      Please note that only one Screen can exist at a time, per
      application; this is a limitation of SDL. Use [[.new]] (or
      its alias, [[.open]]) to create or modify the Screen.

      Also note that no changes to the Screen will be seen until it is
      refreshed. See [[#update]], [[#update_rects]], and [[#flip]] for
      ways to refresh all or part of the Screen.
    

If synopsis is missing but details is declared, Dixi will use part of
the details as an ad hoc synopsis, when necessary.

"cmethods" means class methods, methods that are called on the class
itself. "imethods" means instance methods, methods that are called on
an instance of the class.

Dixi automatically scans for class and instance methods based on
existing files. If you declare cmethods and/or imethods, the methods
you list will also be displayed, even if they don't exist yet.


Modules
=======

Same format as classes, except "type" is "module", and there is an
additional "mmethods" (meaning "module methods") section.

In the context of a module, "cmethods" means methods that a class
would gain as class methods if it included the module as a mixin.
"imethods" means instance methods that a class would gain if it
included the module, and also methods that an object would gain if it
were extended with the module. "mmethods" means methods that are
called on the module itself.


Class Methods
=============
    
    type: class method
    name: Rubygame::Screen.new
    base: Rubygame::Surface.new
    args:
      - name: size
        info: Requested window size (in pixels), in the form [width,height]
        type: Array of 2 integers
      - name: depth
        info: Requested color depth (in bits per pixel).
              If 0 (default), uses the current system color depth. 
        type: Integer (usually 0, 8, 16, or 32)
        default: 0
      - name: flags
        info: An array of integer flags (see method description),
              or an integer of the flags combined with (`|`).
        type: Array of integers, or an integer.
        default: [Rubygame::SWSURFACE]
    aliases:
      - Rubygame::Screen.open
    synopsis:
      Create a new Rubygame window if there is none,
      or modify the existing one.
    details: |
      Create a new Rubygame window if there is none, or modify the
      existing one. You cannot create more than one Screen; the
      existing one will be replaced. (This is a limitation of SDL.)

      Returns the resulting Screen.

      flags
        : an Array of zero or more of the following flags.

          * [[Rubygame::SWSURFACE]]: Create the video surface in
            system memory.
          * [[Rubygame::HWSURFACE]]: Create the video surface in video
            memory.
          * etc.


Module Methods
==============

Same format as class methods, except "type" is "module method".


Instance Methods
================

Same format as class methods, except "type" is "instance method" and
name uses "#" instead of "." to separate the class/module from the
method name.
